A network is a set of relationships that you depend on to get things done to get ahead in your career and to develop professionally. At its root, networking is relationship-building. Its by-product often leads to career connections or new opportunities, but the act of networking is really about connecting with someone on a deeper level. Or is it?

The famous misconception about networking is that <lean in video>

THERE ARE THREE KINDS OF NETWORKS:
• Operational — relationships with people at work that allow you to get today’s work done
• Personal — relationships of your choosing, people you like to hang out with informally
• Strategic — (most important network for career advancement) relationships that help you envision your future, sell your ideas, and get the information and resources you need

Your networking contacts are probably like-minded people with similar goals as your own, so it’s not unlikely that your professional support network will spill over into your personal friendships. 
“Just Like Me” convenience networks are not the most effective — we need a diversity of ideas, inputs, information, and resources.
Gain a different perspective - It’s easy to get caught up in the day-to-day of your professional realm and end up in a rut. By talking to others in your field or people with expertise in a particular area, you can gain insights that only come from viewing a situation with fresh eyes. Asking for opinions from contacts you trust or admire can help you see things in a new light and overcome roadblocks that you might not have known how to circumvent otherwise.
Get fresh ideas - Your network can be an excellent source of new perspectives and ideas to help you in your role. Exchanging information on challenges, experiences and goals is a key benefit of networking because it allows you to gain new insights that you may not have otherwise thought of. Similarly, offering helpful ideas to a contact is an excellent way to build your reputation as an innovative thinker.
Get advice and support - Gaining the advice of experienced peers is an important benefit of networking. Discussing common challenges and opportunities opens the door to valuable suggestions and guidance. Offering genuine assistance to your contacts also sets a strong foundation for receiving support in return when you need it.


There is strength in “weak ties” — in our relationships with people that we don’t know that well or that we don’t see very often.


• Focus on and develop the value you bring to your network
• Prioritize and invest in a few activities — favor active over passive networking 
